ACC 177. Independent Studies. (0-5)

ACC 211. Accounting for the Non-Business Major. (3)

Introduction to basic accounting and management concepts for an individual who would like to own, manage or start a business one day. Focus is on the most important areas a user (not a preparer) of financial statements needs to know to effectively run or manage a business such as the following: interpreting financial statements, knowledge of simple and useful tax concepts, analyzing budgeting, assessing cash flow, and making business decisions using financial data. Not open to business majors.
ACC 221. Introduction to Financial Accounting. (3) (MPT)

Introduction to the purposes of financial statements and the recognition, measurement, and disclosure concepts and methods underlying financial statements. Focus is on preparing, using and interpreting financial statements and on understanding the impact of transactions and events on financial statements and financial ratios.
ACC 222. Introduction to Managerial Accounting. (3) (MPT)

Introduction to the uses of accounting information provided to managers in production, service, and resale businesses. Focus is on classifying, measuring, and analyzing product and service costs for decision making, preparing budgets, and evaluating performance.
Prerequisite: ACC 221.
ACC 256. Accountancy Career Exploration and Planning. (1)

This course will explore the historical, current and possible future role of the accounting profession in the domestic and global economy. Students will understand the various standard setters and opportunities for the accounting profession to interact and influence the outcomes of business organizations. This course will assist accountancy majors to explore career interests in future accountancy positions within public accounting, private industry or governmental positions. Specifically, the course will focus on helping students understand the variety of career opportunities available to accounting majors. The course will assist students with understanding the key career planning and job searching opportunities at Miami University. Students will be exposed to the timeline and types of events they can expect in the interview process and will be informed about how best to prepare for and be successful in executing each.
ACC 277. Independent Studies. (0-5)

ACC 301. CBL Corporate Governance & Executive Leadership Lab. (1)

This lab allows students in the later stage of their CBL experience to understand how executives and board of directors seize opportunities and manage risks associated with achieving strategic objectives and engaging stakeholders to create long-term shareholder value.
Prerequisite: Acceptance into The Issac and Oxley Center for Business Leadership and completion of MGT 101 and MGT 102, which are the Buck Rodgers Individual and Team weekend labs, respectively.
ACC 321. Intermediate Financial Accounting. (3) (MPT)

Study of the conceptual framework and standard-setting process followed by the application and evaluation of generally accepted accounting principles underlying financial statements. Focus is on recording and reporting intermediate-level transactions and events in accordance with authoritative standards related to the recognition, measurement, and disclosure of assets, liabilities, owners' equity, revenues, expenses, gains, and losses. Prerequisites: ACC 221 and ACC 222.
ACC 333. Managerial Accounting. (3)

Focuses on the interactions between firm strategy and accounting information, with an emphasis on employee decision-making and analytical tools. Examines these topics in a variety of contexts, such as budgeting and forecasting; performance measurement, management, and incentives; product and service costing; or transfer pricing.
Prerequisites: ACC 221 and ACC 222.
ACC 340. Internship. (0-20)

Available to Farmer School of Business (FSB) majors and minors. Available for 0 credit hour during spring, summer and fall terms. Available for 1 credit hour during summer terms only. For one hour of credit, student must secure a sponsoring FSB faculty member within his/her major or minor to supervise the internship and accompanying required internship reflection paper. ACC 340 is not available during winter term. Students are to work through their respective academic departments to enroll in the course. Credit/no credit only. Note: FSB students may earn a maximum 2 credit hours toward graduation for BLS/BUS/ECO/ESP/FIN/ISA/MGT/MKT 340.
Prerequisite: 55 earned hours and permission of department.
ACC 343. Federal Income Tax Accounting. (3)

Study of the basic features of the federal income tax system. Focuses on the determination of taxable individuals and corporations and on the effects of tax laws and regulations on decision making.
Prerequisites: ACC 221 and ACC 222.
ACC 361. Modeling Business Processes in Accounting Information Systems. (3)

Introduction to accounting information systems (AIS) as an enterprise-wide, process-focused information system. Also focuses on modeling business processes for AIS by studying processes and learning how to build information systems to support them. Uses data modeling tools such as the REA model and entity-relationship diagrams to construct relational database systems.
Prerequisites: ACC 221, ACC 222 and ISA 235.
ACC 370. Applied Accounting Research. (1-3; maximum 3)

This course provides students with the opportunity to apply their knowledge of accounting along with their research, team and communication skills to real world problems. The typical mode of learning will be a case competition requiring students to work in a team to research and propose a solution to an accounting issue. The cases used in this course are developed from actual situations faced by accountants. In many cases, students will be judged on their proposed solutions by a panel of accounting professionals.
Prerequisite: ACC 221.
ACC 377. Independent Studies. (0-5)

ACC 422/ACC 522. Financial Accounting Research. (3) (MPT)

Study of professional research methods and resources used for financial accounting and reporting. Focuses on the application of research methods and resources, through case analyses, to determine applicable recognition, measurement, and disclosure standards for advanced-level transactions and events.
Prerequisite: ACC 321.
ACC 433. Management Accounting for Processes. (3)

Focuses on the roles firm strategy and management accounting information play in managing business processes. Emphasizes value chain analysis, business process re-engineering, balanced scorecard performance measurement, benchmarking, master budgeting and variance analysis, process value analysis, nonfinancial operational performance measurement, and throughout accounting.
Prerequisites: ACC 333 and MGT 302.
ACC 445/ACC 545. Taxation of Flow-through Entities and Corporations. (3)

Study of the federal tax consequences of the formation and operation of corporations, partnerships, and S corporations. The course also provides a basic understanding of the legal tax research process and how to access online and evaluate the various sources of federal income tax law.
Prerequisite: ACC 343.
ACC 452. Internal Auditing. (3)

Focuses on the theory and practice of auditing within organizations. Covers internal auditing standards, overview of operational, performance and compliance type audits, and the application of common internal audit techniques.Prerequisites: ACC 333 and ACC 361.
ACC 453/ACC 553. Financial Statement Auditing. (3)

Introduction to financial statement audits conducted by independent public accountants. Emphasizes the technical knowledge and skills required by entry-level auditors to meet professional standards, plan and perform audits, and communicate results.
Prerequisites: ACC 321 and ACC 361.
ACC 458. Advanced Auditing Topics and Research. (3)

This course will cover advanced auditing topics including risk assessment, internal control testing and the situational and dispositional factors affecting auditor judgment and decision making. To examine these topics students will read a mix of popular press articles, technical guidance from both the AICPA and PCAOB, and academic journal articles. Recommended prerequisite: ACC 453/ACC 553.
ACC 461. Accounting for Business Combinations. (3)

Accounting for mergers and acquisitions with emphasis on preparation of consolidated financial statements. The course also covers accounting for business entities operating as partnerships.
Prerequisite: ACC 321.
ACC 468/ACC 568. Accounting for Governmental and Not-for-Profit Organizations. (3)

Application of accounting principles for governmental organizations with emphasis on fund accounting, budgetary control, and financial reporting. Also includes the study of accounting issues for health care organizations, public and private colleges and universities, and voluntary health and welfare organizations with a focus on assessing an organization's use of resources in light of its mission.
Prerequisite: ACC 221 and ACC 222.
ACC 477. Independent Studies. (0-5)

ACC 490/ACC 590. Current Topics in Accounting and Auditing. (1-3; maximum 6)

Since accounting exists in an ever-changing environment, this course will expose students to the latest issues in financial accounting, managerial accounting, tax, auditing and accounting systems. The format for the course will depend on the specific topic being addressed in the course.
Prerequisites: ACC 321, 333, 343 and 361.
ACC 495/ACC 595. Accounting Analysis. (3) (MPC)

This course is intended to assist accounting students with the development of integrative and higher order skills through the review of data analytics. The course is heavily focused on problem solving and analysis.
Prerequisites: FSB Business Core - ACC 221, 222; ECO 201,202; MGT 291; MKT 291; FIN 301; ISA 235.
ACC 611. Accounting for Managers. (3)

This course explores how accounting information is used by managers to make internal business decisions, to create financial plans, and to evaluate actual performance relative to those plans. It also explores how managers analyze financial statements for internal management purposes.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in MBA Program.
ACC 622. Information for Business Valuation and Decisions. (3)

Framework and skills to analyze financial information for business valuation and capital allocation decisions including applications through case analysis. Emphasis on using financial information for four types of analyses: business strategy, accounting, financial, and prospective.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy Program.
ACC 628. Advanced Issues in Financial Accounting and Reporting. (3)

This course covers a selected set of advanced issues in financial accounting, including merger and acquisition and its implications for financial reporting, the use of financial derivatives for trading and/or hedging purposes and related accounting treatments, and other topics that are of high relevance and importance to business entities' financial accounting and reporting in current business environment.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy program.
ACC 635. Financial Leadership in Organizations. (3)

Examines the roles of the CFO in the financial leadership of organizations, particularly in the areas of guidance and governance. Focuses on CFO interactions with various stakeholders, and the support role that various functional areas within the organization play to assist the CFO. Investigates differences in CFO-stakeholder interactions and support roles across various types of organizations and over time within one firm. Analysis of the knowledge and skills that financial professionals must bring to leadership roles within organizations.
ACC 646. Taxes and Business Decisions. (3)

Taxes play a major role in determining the costs and benefits of all business transactions. This course will provide the tools necessary to identify, understand and evaluate tax planning opportunities.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy Program.
ACC 650. Fraud Examination. (3)

Study of the process of locating, investigating and documenting fraud in a business environment. In addition to learning about several common types of fraud schemes, students will learn how and why occupational fraud is committed, how fraudulent conduct can be deterred, and how allegations of fraud should be investigated and resolved within the current legal environment.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy Program.
ACC 653. Assurance Services. (3)

Focuses on fundamentals and emerging issues related to the practice of auditing and involves researching and resolving practice-oriented problems. In addition to other relevant topics, the course covers audit sampling, EDP auditing, and computer-assisted audit techniques.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy Program.
ACC 655. Control of Accounting & Reporting Risk. (3)

Study of the process of identifying, measuring and controlling strategic and business process risk utilizing accepted accounting frameworks from both internal and external perspectives. The concepts studied in this course are the theoretical foundation for business risk auditing approaches being utilized by international accounting firms. The process of designing effective risk management strategies and controls are examined within specific industries and accounting settings.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy Program.
ACC 661. Accounting Theory and Research. (3)

This course is focused on examining academic research related to accounting topics. Specifically the course will review key research articles with the intent of understanding the underlying motivation and competing theories, the research method and approach, and the specific findings of the research. The goal of the course is to expose students to existing research and research tools while assisting students in the development of their analytical thinking skills related to the accounting discipline.
ACC 677. Independent Studies. (0-5)

ACC 681. Special Studies in Accounting. (1-4; maximum 6)

Since accounting exists in an ever-changing environment, this course will expose graduate students to the latest issues in financial accounting, managerial accounting, tax, auditing and accounting systems. The format for the course will depend on the specific topic being addressed in the course.
ACC 695. Integrative Accounting Capstone. (3) (MPC)

Integration of auditing, accounting systems, financial accounting, managerial cost accounting, and income tax accounting.
Prerequisite: Enrollment in Master of Accountancy Program.